README.md, before:

# Projojo

A full-stack application with a Python backend, React frontend, and TypeDB database.

## Prerequisites

* Docker / Docker Desktop installed

That's it! No direct Node.js or Python installation required as everything runs in containers.

## Development with Docker

### Quick Start

For Windows (PowerShell):
```powershell
.\docker-start.ps1

# For a complete reset, use the -reset flag
.\docker-start.ps1 -reset
```

For Mac/Linux (Bash):
```shell
./docker-start.sh

# For a complete reset, use the -reset flag
./docker-start.sh -reset
```

These scripts will:
1. Clean up any existing containers
2. Start all services with Docker Compose
3. Open your browser to the frontend application
4. Display container logs in the terminal

The `-reset` flag will completely reset all containers (including volumes) for when you want a fresh start. i.e. when the image versions change or you want to clear all data.

### Docker Services

| Service      | Container Name   | Description            | Port |
| ------------ | ---------------- | ---------------------- | ---- |
| **TypeDB**   | projojo_typedb   | TypeDB database server | 1729 |
|              |                  | TypeDB Studio          | 1728 |
| **Backend**  | projojo_backend  | FastAPI application    | 8000 |
| **Frontend** | projojo_frontend | Vite/React application | 5173 |

### Accessing TypeDB Studio

As of TypeDB version 3.3.0, TypeDB Studio is a web-based application. Our project is already configured to use TypeDB v3.3.0.

To access TypeDB Studio:
1. Go to [studio.typedb.com/connect](https://studio.typedb.com/connect) in your web browser.
2. In the "Address" field, enter: `http://localhost:1728`
4. Click "Connect".

You can also switch to "**Use connection URL**" mode and enter: `typedb://admin:password@http://localhost:1728` to log in with the default credentials.

This will connect you to the TypeDB instance running in your local Docker container.

### Managing the Database

To reset the TypeDB database and start fresh, you can use the `-reset` flag with the `docker-start` scripts shown at [quick start](#quick-start), or manually run the following commands:

```bash
# Stop all containers
docker compose down

# Remove the volume
docker volume rm projojo_typedb-data

# Start everything back up
docker compose up -d
```

### Development Workflow

1. **Code Changes**: Edit files in your IDE as normal
   - Frontend changes use HMR (Hot Module Replacement) to update in real-time
   - Backend changes trigger automatic reload via the --reload flag in uvicorn

2. **Container Management**:
   - View logs: `docker compose logs -f`
   - Rebuild after dependency changes: `docker compose up --build [service_name]`

3. **Debugging**:
   - Frontend: Browser developer tools
   - Backend: View logs with `docker compose logs -f backend`

### Frontend Dependencies Management

When adding or updating frontend packages:

#### Method 1: Rebuild after package.json changes
```bash
# After manually editing package.json
docker compose build frontend
docker compose up -d frontend
```

#### Method 2: Install inside the container
```bash
# Access frontend container shell
docker compose exec frontend sh

# Install packages
npm install package-name --save         # For runtime dependencies
npm install package-name --save-dev     # For dev dependencies

# Exit container
exit
```
> **Note:** When you install packages directly in the container (Method 2), your changes **will persist** after container restarts. The `package.json` file gets updated on both your host machine and in the container due to Docker volume mapping, so Git will track these dependency changes and you can commit them to version control. However, the `node_modules` folder uses an anonymous Docker volume, therefore this folder will not sync between your host machine and the container.

### Backend Dependencies Management

The backend uses **uv** for modern Python dependency management. Think of uv as npm, but for Python:
- `pyproject.toml` ≈ `package.json`
- `uv.lock` ≈ `package-lock.json`
- `uv add <dependency>` ≈ `npm install <dependency>`
- `uv sync` ≈ `npm ci`

For the complete documentation on backend dependency management, see the [backend README](./projojo_backend/README.md#dependency-management).

### Troubleshooting

If HMR stops working or the frontend container's CPU usage drops significantly:
1. Restart the frontend container: `docker compose restart frontend`
2. If the issue persists, try rebuilding: `docker compose build --no-cache frontend`

For TypeDB connection issues:
1. Ensure the TypeDB container is running: `docker ps`
2. Check backend logs: `docker compose logs backend`

#### Windows-Docker File Synchronization Issues

For Windows systems, file synchronization between host and containers can be problematic:

1. Vite is already configured with polling in this project:
```javascript
// vite.config.ts
watch: {
  usePolling: true,  // Required for file changes to be detected in Docker on Windows
  interval: 250      // Polling interval in ms
}
```

2. If file changes are still not detected, try:
   - Restarting the containers: `docker compose restart`
   - In extreme cases, restart Docker Desktop completely

Commit message:

added references to oauth setup readme

README.md, after:

# Projojo

A full-stack application with a Python backend, React frontend, and TypeDB database.

## Prerequisites

* Docker / Docker Desktop installed
* OAuth credentials configured (see [OAuth Setup Guide](./projojo_backend/auth/README.md))

That's it! No direct Node.js or Python installation required as everything runs in containers.

## Development with Docker

### Quick Start

> **First time setup?** Make sure to configure your OAuth credentials first!  
> See the [OAuth Setup Guide](./projojo_backend/auth/README.md) for instructions on obtaining Google and GitHub OAuth credentials.

For Windows (PowerShell):
```powershell
.\docker-start.ps1

# For a complete reset, use the -reset flag
.\docker-start.ps1 -reset
```

For Mac/Linux (Bash):
```shell
./docker-start.sh

# For a complete reset, use the -reset flag
./docker-start.sh -reset
```

These scripts will:
1. Clean up any existing containers
2. Start all services with Docker Compose
3. Open your browser to the frontend application
4. Display container logs in the terminal

The `-reset` flag will completely reset all containers (including volumes) for when you want a fresh start. i.e. when the image versions change or you want to clear all data.

### Docker Services

| Service      | Container Name   | Description            | Port |
| ------------ | ---------------- | ---------------------- | ---- |
| **TypeDB**   | projojo_typedb   | TypeDB database server | 1729 |
|              |                  | TypeDB Studio          | 1728 |
| **Backend**  | projojo_backend  | FastAPI application    | 8000 |
| **Frontend** | projojo_frontend | Vite/React application | 5173 |

### Accessing TypeDB Studio

As of TypeDB version 3.3.0, TypeDB Studio is a web-based application. Our project is already configured to use TypeDB v3.3.0.

To access TypeDB Studio:
1. Go to [studio.typedb.com/connect](https://studio.typedb.com/connect) in your web browser.
2. In the "Address" field, enter: `http://localhost:1728`
4. Click "Connect".

You can also switch to "**Use connection URL**" mode and enter: `typedb://admin:password@http://localhost:1728` to log in with the default credentials.

This will connect you to the TypeDB instance running in your local Docker container.

### Managing the Database

To reset the TypeDB database and start fresh, you can use the `-reset` flag with the `docker-start` scripts shown at [quick start](#quick-start), or manually run the following commands:

```bash
# Stop all containers
docker compose down

# Remove the volume
docker volume rm projojo_typedb-data

# Start everything back up
docker compose up -d
```

### Development Workflow

1. **Code Changes**: Edit files in your IDE as normal
   - Frontend changes use HMR (Hot Module Replacement) to update in real-time
   - Backend changes trigger automatic reload via the --reload flag in uvicorn

2. **Container Management**:
   - View logs: `docker compose logs -f`
   - Rebuild after dependency changes: `docker compose up --build [service_name]`

3. **Debugging**:
   - Frontend: Browser developer tools
   - Backend: View logs with `docker compose logs -f backend`

### Frontend Dependencies Management

When adding or updating frontend packages:

#### Method 1: Rebuild after package.json changes
```bash
# After manually editing package.json
docker compose build frontend
docker compose up -d frontend
```

#### Method 2: Install inside the container
```bash
# Access frontend container shell
docker compose exec frontend sh

# Install packages
npm install package-name --save         # For runtime dependencies
npm install package-name --save-dev     # For dev dependencies

# Exit container
exit
```
> **Note:** When you install packages directly in the container (Method 2), your changes **will persist** after container restarts. The `package.json` file gets updated on both your host machine and in the container due to Docker volume mapping, so Git will track these dependency changes and you can commit them to version control. However, the `node_modules` folder uses an anonymous Docker volume, therefore this folder will not sync between your host machine and the container.

### Backend Dependencies Management

The backend uses **uv** for modern Python dependency management. Think of uv as npm, but for Python:
- `pyproject.toml` ≈ `package.json`
- `uv.lock` ≈ `package-lock.json`
- `uv add <dependency>` ≈ `npm install <dependency>`
- `uv sync` ≈ `npm ci`

For the complete documentation on backend dependency management, see the [backend README](./projojo_backend/README.md#dependency-management).

### Troubleshooting

If HMR stops working or the frontend container's CPU usage drops significantly:
1. Restart the frontend container: `docker compose restart frontend`
2. If the issue persists, try rebuilding: `docker compose build --no-cache frontend`

For TypeDB connection issues:
1. Ensure the TypeDB container is running: `docker ps`
2. Check backend logs: `docker compose logs backend`

#### Windows-Docker File Synchronization Issues

For Windows systems, file synchronization between host and containers can be problematic:

1. Vite is already configured with polling in this project:
```javascript
// vite.config.ts
watch: {
  usePolling: true,  // Required for file changes to be detected in Docker on Windows
  interval: 250      // Polling interval in ms
}
```

2. If file changes are still not detected, try:
   - Restarting the containers: `docker compose restart`
   - In extreme cases, restart Docker Desktop completely
